Update bounce rate ADR (#39)
cds-snc/notification-adr: records/2023-01-26.bounce-rate-automated-emergency-brake.md

Bounce rates should only be displayed once a service sends a minimum number of emails in the `[bounce-rate-window]`. The value `[bounce-rate-display-volume-minimum]` will be used to prevent displaying bounce rate warnings or errors when a service has only sent a small number of emails.

###  Provide bounce rate guidance
Provide guidance to service owners to explain bounce rate concepts and how they apply to their service.  Provide guidance on how services can keep their bounce rate low.

###  Bounce rate calculation for a service
The formula for calculating a service's bounce rate will be the total number of hard bounces the service received divided by the total number of emails the service sent during the `[bounce-rate-window]`.

## Technical considerations
### Changes to the Notification model
In order to store the bounce rate GC Notify needs to record a few pieces of information for each notification:
- The bounce type
- The bounce sub-type
- The ses_feedback_id associated with the bounce
- The date and time the bounce occurred

This will require 4 new columns in the notifications table to store the bounce type.

### Calculating the bounce rate

> We will store the bounce rate data for a service in Redis, which will be the source of truth for calculating and checking a services bounce rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will store the bounce rate data for a service in Redis, which will be the source of truth for calculating and checking a service's bounce rate.
```

### Changes to the dashboard
A new section will be added to the dashboard to present a service's bounce rate to the owner of the service. We will use the data stored in Redis to calculate and display a services bounce rate for a given `[bounce-rate-window]`.

### Monitoring bounce rates
Bounce rates can be monitored by AWS log metrics in combination with alarms that will notify us via the `#notification-ops` channel in Slack when a service exceeds `[bounce-rate-warning-percentage]` or `[bounce-rate-critical-percentage]`.

> In addition to metrics and alarms, bounce rates can be monitored by a periodic celery task that polls Redis for bounce data, and notifies services that are over `[bounce-rate-warning-percentage]` and suspends services that are over `[bounce-rate-critical-percentage]`.

Reviewer: does this need to be a celery task? we could just trigger the service suspension and notify the service owners when we receive a hard bounce that puts the service over the 10% limit. We could put that code in the same place as our log message here: https://github.com/cds-snc/notification-api/blob/main/app/celery/process_ses_receipts_tasks.py#L85

Author: That's a good point, and probably the direction we want to go. I'll re-write this section.

Author: I cleaned this section up let me know if it reflects well!

Reviewer: looks good!

In order to not hit the database directly we are going to store two keys for each service. These two keys are stored as a Redis sorted set. The `{key:value}` pair input will be `{notification_id: epoch}`

`sliding_total_notifications:{service_id}`\
`sliding_hard_bounce:{service_id}`

$$\text{Bounce Rate} = \frac{\text{length}( \text{hard bounces:\{service id\}} )}{ \text{length}( \text{total notifications:\{service id\}} )}$$

As the `key` must be unique we used `notification_id`. We add to total_notifications every single time we send a notification. With the `value` as `epoch` so we might calculate the bounce rate using a sliding window. We can find the length of the above two keys, where only the keys in the last 24 hours (this is adjustable) are included in the calculation.

## Seeding Redis

### Seeding the keys:
When we seed `sliding_total_notifications:{service_id}` or `sliding_hard_bounce:{service_id}` per service_id, we would have to take every single notification sent in the last X-hours (X being 24 etc) and add to the `sliding_notifications:{service_id}` key. This would mean looping through every single notification row for the last 24 hours and adding it to the list.

> Instead, for each `service_id`, we will find the `total notifications` and `total hard bounces` per hour in the last 24 hours. We use the same pattern as before with a slight deviation, where instead of the `notification_id` we generate a new uuid: `{uuid: epoch}`. Since the key is of little value outside of being a unique identifier in Redis, then we can speed up the seeding process by omitting collection of the `notification_id` in our queries.

Reviewer: good explanation!

## Redis Memory Consideration

We are currently using 500mb on our Redis cluster which is assigned 1G of RAM. An increase in the number of keys means we might need to upgrade the cluster. [Current memory usage estimations and analysis](https://github.com/cds-snc/notification-attic/pull/31) and recent [Redis memory usage](https://gcdigital.slack.com/archives/CV38DBNVA/p1685372981086749) shows that, for the time being, this is not something we need to consider right now, but as Notify grows we will need to keep this in mind.

# Additional considerations

## Staggered roll-out
To prevent suspending services that may not actually be causing issues with the overall bounce rate, it is suggested to roll out this feature in stages.

### Version 1
The first stage would include tracking bounces, calculating bounce rates, and displaying them on service dashboards. It would also include providing bounce rate guidance for services.

### Version 1.5

> The second stages would include bug fixes, and any adjustments to the way we calculate bounce rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would include: bug fixes, displaying data from Redis in the dashboard, design changes to the dashboard to allow displaying 7 day statistics along side 24 hour bounce rate data, and any adjustments to the way we calculate bounce rate.
```

### Version 2

> Once the calculations have been confirmed to work satisfactorily with live data, the third stage can be rolled out which will include warning and suspending services.

Reviewer: Let's remove the "first stage" "second stage" "third stage" terms and just refer to the releases by version number.

```suggestion
Once the calculations have been confirmed to work satisfactorily with live data, we can roll out warning and suspending services that exceed a bounce rate of 10%. 
```
